## Reading 43 - Ethics in Tech

## Ethics in Technology
So, I read the article, "Big Data is our Civil Rights issue", and it was quite thought provoking. Essentially, the article posits that big data is this generation's civil rights issue. It discusses how in the 60s, Congress had to pass the Fair Housing Act because of bank managers restricting loans to residents of certain areas in their region. Before the internet was a thing, people were using data to discriminate against others. Now, data is so abundant, that we can accurately predict someone's race and gender based on online behaviors, responses to questions/surveys, etc. I think it is imperative that the development community remain cognizant of how their work can potentially be harmful to society, especially as it relates to civil rights. 

## Ethics in the Workplace

I read the article, "The code I'm still ashamed of", which talks about software a dev was a part of that pushed a drug, unnecessarily to specific individuals (teenage girls). The premise was a survey that girls took, but unless they specifically said they were allergic or that they were already taking it, it recommended the drug. While not illegal, it essentially preyed on young girls. What was so concerning is how this drug ended up being the root cause to a young girl dying by suicide. The pharmaceutical company just wanted this quiz to have all paths lead back to recommending the drug, at any expense. The thing that stuck out is that the author of the article wrote how they're ashamed basically because they didn't push back on the requirements the client had, knowing that it seemed off. I think it is important as devs, when something does not seem right, even if it isn't illegal, to push back and seek clarity on the project they're being asked to work on.